workstation/docs/05-ManualSetup.md, before:

# Step 5: Manual setup

Links:

- [Previous](./04-AnsiblePlaybook.md)
- Next

---

## Other stuff

There are some things that aren't configurable at the moment via Ansible (or I am too lazy to add it to the playbook). I will write down those things below.

### VPS as VPN

**TODO: this doesn't actually work** - when I try to use the VPN, it won't run.

To get easy access to the VPN setup, I need to add my VPS as a VPN (Network Manager applet) via the GNOME network settings. First copy the secrets to a local folder from the VPS:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/Documents/Secrets/VPN
rsync -avzh user@host:/media/sd_[0-9]/user/private/vpn/* ~/Documents/Secrets/VPN
```

...and once you have the settings, follow these steps to set up the NM applet:

- Go to 'Settings > Network > VPN' and click '+'.
- Click 'Import from file...'.
- Select the `client.ovpn` file.

### Add profile picture for user

Couldn't figure out a way to do this via dconf settings, like I did with the desktop wallpaper. So, have to do it manually:

- Adding a profile picture to my user.
  - Go to 'Settings > Users'.
  - Click on the profile picture and change it to an actual picture of me.

### Install GNOME extensions

Currently managed via `Extension Manager` Flatpak, which was installed by the playbook.

- Disabled extensions:
  - 'window-list@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.com'
  - 'launch-new-instance@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.com'
- Enabled extensions:
  - 'background-logo@fedorahosted.org'
  - 'places-menu@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.com'
  - 'blur-my-shell@aunetx'
  - 'trayIconsReloaded@selfmade.pl'
  - 'apps-menu@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.com'
  - 'screenshot-window-sizer@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.com'

### Download `nb` notes folder

TODO: move this into the playbook

This is the CLI app that I use for note-taking. The playbook will get this onto the workstation, but I need to pull my notes down from GitHub:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:apatel762/notes.git ~/Documents/Notes
```

### Install `pipx` apps

TODO: move this into the playbook

I've got some Python apps that I've installed via `pipx` (might add this to the playbook at some point, but for now it's a manual process):

- `ranger-fm`
- `yt-dlp`
- `poetry`

### Install PWAs via Brave

I've got some apps installed as PWAs through Brave:

- Jellyfin
- Fastmail
- GitHub
- Reddit

This is so that I can launch these are separate apps and still have the ad-block and other stuff available.

For my usual browsing, I use incognito mode so that the cookies don't stick around. Any site where I might want to sign in, I add to the desktop as a PWA.

### Restore Reddit Enhancement Suite backup

Should be on Nextcloud somewhere.

This is so that I can use Reddit more effectively without signing in.

### Install TamperMonkey scripts

Only using one script at the moment: [Bring Back Old Reddit](https://greasyfork.org/en/scripts/44669-bring-back-old-reddit). If the script isn't available, source code is below:

```javascript
window.location.replace("https://old.reddit.com" + window.location.pathname + window.location.search);
```

Commit message:

update workstation manual setup docs
I've installed a new PWA via Brave; this commit updates that part of the
documentation to reflect this (still not sure how to automate the
installation of PWAs so this is as good as it'll be for now).

Fleshed out the TODO note on the nb setup section, because that setup
should be automated and I think the easiest way would be to follow what
I've done for pipx and bin.

And to finish it off, this commit removes the docs for pipx apps because
that's now in the group_vars/local.yml part of the playbook folder and
it's managed by the bash init scripts (which are installed by the
playbook).

workstation/docs/05-ManualSetup.md, after:

# Step 5: Manual setup

Links:

- [Previous](./04-AnsiblePlaybook.md)
- Next

---

## Other stuff

There are some things that aren't configurable at the moment via Ansible (or I am too lazy to add it to the playbook). I will write down those things below.

### VPS as VPN

**TODO: this doesn't actually work** - when I try to use the VPN, it won't run.

To get easy access to the VPN setup, I need to add my VPS as a VPN (Network Manager applet) via the GNOME network settings. First copy the secrets to a local folder from the VPS:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/Documents/Secrets/VPN
rsync -avzh user@host:/media/sd_[0-9]/user/private/vpn/* ~/Documents/Secrets/VPN
```

...and once you have the settings, follow these steps to set up the NM applet:

- Go to 'Settings > Network > VPN' and click '+'.
- Click 'Import from file...'.
- Select the `client.ovpn` file.

### Add profile picture for user

Couldn't figure out a way to do this via dconf settings, like I did with the desktop wallpaper. So, have to do it manually:

- Adding a profile picture to my user.
  - Go to 'Settings > Users'.
  - Click on the profile picture and change it to an actual picture of me.

### Install GNOME extensions

Currently managed via `Extension Manager` Flatpak, which was installed by the playbook.

- Disabled extensions:
  - 'window-list@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.com'
  - 'launch-new-instance@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.com'
- Enabled extensions:
  - 'background-logo@fedorahosted.org'
  - 'places-menu@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.com'
  - 'blur-my-shell@aunetx'
  - 'trayIconsReloaded@selfmade.pl'
  - 'apps-menu@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.com'
  - 'screenshot-window-sizer@gnome-shell-extensions.gcampax.github.com'

### Download `nb` notes folder

TODO: automate this via the bash init scripts (as done with `pipx` and `bin`)

This is the CLI app that I use for note-taking. The playbook will get this onto the workstation, but I need to pull my notes down from GitHub:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:apatel762/notes.git ~/Documents/Notes
```

### Install PWAs via Brave

I've got some apps installed as PWAs through Brave:

- Jellyfin
- Komga
- Fastmail
- GitHub
- Reddit

This is so that I can launch these are separate apps and still have the ad-block and other stuff available.

For my usual browsing, I use incognito mode so that the cookies don't stick around. Any site where I might want to sign in, I add to the desktop as a PWA.

### Restore Reddit Enhancement Suite backup

Should be on Nextcloud somewhere.

This is so that I can use Reddit more effectively without signing in.

### Install TamperMonkey scripts

Only using one script at the moment: [Bring Back Old Reddit](https://greasyfork.org/en/scripts/44669-bring-back-old-reddit). If the script isn't available, source code is below:

```javascript
window.location.replace("https://old.reddit.com" + window.location.pathname + window.location.search);
```
